FacebookGroupCollector
=====================================
(v.1 - October 26, 2015)

FacebookGroupCollector are python GUI to collect facebook group information and save it into JSON format. The effective scripts is fetchNow.html automatically generated by fetchGUI.py.

Python and Ruby Versions
---------------
The GUI was written in Python 2.7. You also need to run with Ruby 2.2.3 (x64) (Download from: http://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/) to start a localhost before you run .py file. Other version above 2.2.0 should work as well. After installing Ruby, please type "gem install serve" in Command Prompt to install serve package (Full instructions: http://get-serve.com/get-started).

What You Need Before you Start
-------------------------------
You need to know the GroupID of the group (eg, [Asian American Chicago Network (AACN)](https://www.facebook.com/groups/asianamericanchicagonetwork/) 160475740743826) you would like to collect data from (Get groupID using: https://lookup-id.com/), and input it in the GUI. Please make sure the group you would like to access is a public group.

Your Facebook account also need to be granted at least Tester permission to modify and run the app.

Setup and Go
-------------
1. Download fetchGUI.py, and make sure that you have Firefox browser.
2. Open Command Prompt from the folder where fetchGUI.py locates, and type "serve".
3. Run fetchGUI.py with Python 2.7, type in the group ID, click the Get Group Feed button and a webpage tab would pop up in Firefox.
4. At the first time you click the button on the webpage, a Facebook website about your verification would show up. Log in and click Okay. If error shows up, it means you have not been granted permission.
5. Click the button again, and windows to save data webpages would pop up.
6. Check the box "Do this automatically for files like this from now on" and save webpages to one empty folder in your computer.
7. After downloading data is complete, type in the name for the combined json file, and click the Combine Files button.

Additional Data Curation
-------------
After downloading all data, we do a little curation with parse.py and toCSV.py.
Having all raw data in the directory RawData/, run the parse.py first to extract targeted information for future analysis including 

-	message [the content of the entry]
-	postId  [the id of the entry]
-	parentPostId  [if the current entry is a post, this is the id of its parent]
-	parentCommentId  [if the current entry is a comment, this is the id of its parent]
-	authorName  [the author name of the current entry]
-	metaData [including hasLink, hasEvent, hasPhoto, hasVideo and hasTags. Boolean type and the default value is False.]

The output would be one JSON file composed by all entries. And each entry looks like the example below.

	{
  		"hasVideo": false,
  		"hasPhoto": false,
  		"hasLink": true,
  		"parentPostId": "",
  		"authorName": "Shenyun Shenny",
  		"hasEvent": false,
  		"message": "Please join AACN this Saturday morning at 11 AM  for yummy dim sum at Ming Hin (2168 South Archer Avenue, Chicago, IL) in Chinatown. \n\nRSVP on our Meetup page: http:\/\/meetu.ps\/3mPFG",
  		"postId": "160475740743826_167108120080588",
  		"hasTags": false,
  		"parentCommentId": ""
	}
Now we have all clean data we need.

The next step is to put the data in a Excel form so that we can analyze them one by one and take notes. The reason to do this is to classify different topics and discover new issues or questions from the feed.

The easist way to do this is to convert our JSON data into CSV data so that Excel can just open it in a nice format. And that's what toCSV.py file does. The output would be like the table below.

| postId  | parentPostId | parentCommentId | authorName | message | hasVideo | hasPhoto | hasEvent | hasLink | hasTags |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 160475740743826_167108120080588  |   |   | Shenyun Shenny  | Please join AACN this Saturday morning at 11 AM  for yummy dim sum at Ming Hin (2168 South Archer Avenue, Chicago, IL) in Chinatown. RSVP on our Meetup page: http://meetu.ps/3mPFG  | FALSE  | FALSE  | FALSE  | TRUE  | FALSE  |

And you can add you own column such as "notes" or "categories".